hi i'm alex from e2 language comm let's
talk about grammar it's a pain right
unfortunately it accounts for 25% of
your score in IELTS writing and
listening so it's pretty important to
get right and if you're making lots of
little errors it's basically impossible
to score more than seven but never fear
when you submit your writing with us at
e2 language comm we give special
attention to your grammar
after years of examining teaching and
correcting tasks we developed a series
of grammar clinic videos now each video
targets a specific grammar error so for
example if you're having trouble with
your articles will send you the link to
that clinic maybe your singular and
plural nouns are getting mixed up then
we'll give you that grammar clinic video
but probably the most common error is
the one I want to share with you today
and I'm gonna guide you through this
clinic so grab your pen and paper and
let's fix this grammar error once and
for all
in this grammar clinic we are going to
tackle subject verb agreement the first
thing I want you to do is to find the
errors in this introduction you've got
one minute
you
time's up how did you go there were
seven errors with subject verb agreement
there did you find all of them we'll
look at the corrections at the end of
this session
so now let's investigate what subject
verb disagreement is a basic principle
is that subjects must agree with their
verbs so a singular or an uncountable
subject needs a singular verb a singular
or uncountable subject needs a singular
verb notice the S on the end of this
singular verb now of course this is not
every single verb takes an S but when
we're in the present simple or using
auxiliary verbs like was and have we
need to keep this in mind singular or
grand countable subject singular verb
with an S and plural subjects the plural
verbs plural subjects need plural verbs
now everything is fine with those two
sentences the subject and the verb are
agree the problem happens when the
subject and verb disagree now we have a
subject verb agreement problem and if
you get your work back from your teacher
and they've written SVA this is what
they're talking about so let's start
with the basics to fix this up we need
to know if a subject is singular or
plural so there are five sentence starts
yeah the man children a lot of people
and so on just tell me if it's s for
singular or P for plural in 40 seconds
you
pretty easy right I'm sure you got five
I for this let's see the answers the man
singular children plural a lot of people
plural most countries in the world
plural and one of the biggest problems
facing the world singular so now you
need to choose which verb goes with each
subject is it the man plays or the man
play 40 seconds
you
let's check the answers the man plays
soccer children need to be active a lot
of people want to study in Anna who many
countries in the world suffer from
famine one of the biggest problems
facing the world is poverty hopefully
you've got five out of five there don't
worry we're about to get a little bit
more difficult
here are three sentences can you find
and fix the subject verb agreement
errors one minute
you
let's check the answers number one even
if a prisoner has committed a serious
crime they deserve humane treatment
notice that a prisoner is singular but
the writer has used de to indicate he or
she that's why we need plural verb they
deserve humane treatment number two
although the price of housing in most
major cities has soared in recent years
this is a singular verb because the
subject is price the subject is not the
word city's the price has soared in
recent years wage growth remains slow
and number three many people claim that
contact with animals both in the wild
and in zoos encourages activism contact
encourages activism those are some of
the typical errors that we see when
correcting work and when working as an
IELTS examiner
have you made some of those mistakes
before hopefully after this session
you'll know exactly what to look for and
you'll be able to edit your work and
eliminate those errors now uncountable
nouns sometimes create problems with
subject verb agreement so it's really
important to know when a noun is
countable or uncountable let's do a
super quick review here are a list of
nouns on the left is the countable
column and on the right uncountable take
one minute and put them in the right
spot
you
and here are the answers in the
countable column we've got decision one
decision two decisions people one person
many people threat child and ocean and
an uncountable column we've got
information news money evidence water
research and advertising in that
uncountable column all of the nouns
would take a singular the information is
the news is the evidence is so with all
that in mind we're going to correct
eight sentences with common errors and
this is exactly what you should be doing
with your own writing you've got a
problem in mind subject verb agreement
you know that you're looking for a
problem with the noun and a verb may be
the letter S and you're trying to
identify and eliminate that error so
editing in that way means that you're
targeting specific two or three or four
errors that you know you usually make
that's where feedback is really
important your teacher will be able to
show you articles subject verb agreement
may be punctuation those are your three
things and you look for them when you're
editing your work fixing up some of
those mistakes can be the difference
between a six point five and a seven so
it's really worthwhile so let's do it
let's find eight sentences here I want
you to fix all of the errors and get
100% here we go one minute for the first
four
and here are the answers one a lot of
information on those websites is
incorrect information years - there is
plenty of evidence that suggests
bilingualism is beneficial 3 advertising
is ubiquitous these days for the
decisions made by the leader affect
everyone the decisions affect everyone
here are the final for one more minute
you
and here are the answers number five all
the recent research suggests that screen
time is bad for young children six
although governments have a role to play
everyone has to take responsibility
everyone has to every person has to
every country has to seven the news is
full of stories about crime and
tragedies especially one this it does
have an S but we treat the news like a
singular or like an uncountable subject
the news is and number eight people are
angry that pollution continues to
increase pollution is uncountable how
did you go did you score eight out of
eight for that I hope so
let's return to the introduction from
the start of this session and fix up
those seven errors ninety seconds for
this
you
so let's have a look at the seven errors
here they are and we'll correct them one
by one as urban populations saw an
increase in rubbish and littering tends
to follow an increase tends to follow to
avoid the deterioration of the city
streets
some argue that local people themselves
local people themselves need to take
responsibility whereas others feel that
it is the government that should be
taking care of this in my view well I
agree that the authorities do need to
enforce certain rules and the
authorities do need to provide
facilities ultimately it is the
residents who have to self regulate and
maintain their neighborhoods so now we
have a grammatically perfect
introduction we are on the way to
scoring down seven or bad eight always
be sure to check your own work carefully
and ask yourself am i subject singular
plural or uncountable to my subjects
agree with my nouns is the s in the
right place and don't study on your own
come and study with us we've got live
group classes once or twice every day
one on one tutorials self-study
materials
speaking and writing feedback with a
special emphasis of grammar and a super
student support team who is always there
for you so come and join us at ET
language calm and I'll see you in class
really soon
[Music]